Dear esteemed international Dharma friends, I would like to
share with you all the ways to
worship Buddha and ancestors.
[Music]
First, I would like to share with you all the ways to
arrange the altar. In the middle,
we have a Buddha statue, or an
art piece, or three Buddhas, or in the
middle, Buddha with two Bodhisattvas on either side.
We can arrange them according to circumstances,
but this arrangement is still
quite common. Then, on either side,
we can place the incense burners for worshipping
Buddha and performing rituals.
We place the incense burner for Buddha
in the middle, on the right side is the incense burner for deities, and
on the left side is the incense burner for ancestors. For the
Buddha incense burner, you should place it on a
high shelf, while for the deities
and ancestors, you
should place it on a lower shelf. And
on these two sides,
you can arrange flowers.  To worship Buddha, as well
as to offer prayers to deities and ancestors,
we offer flowers because offering to
Buddha is a way of showing our love and respect.
Buddha doesn't
receive our offerings,
but it demonstrates our
sincerity and devotion.
Many
people have different opinions about which flowers are suitable for offering incense and
which are
not. For example, some say, "Flowers are suitable for offering
incense." Greetings, dear fellow devotees. Flowers
are just names
given by people; they don't
affect our worship.
We use different kinds of fresh flowers,
fragrant ones like the vibrant and
abundant milkweed. When flowers
wilt, their fragrance fades,
so we don't use wilted
flowers; we use fresh ones. The quantity of
flowers offered doesn't
depend on a fixed number, but rather on the
economic capabilities of each family.
Based on the number of items remaining on the
Buddhist altar, we divide the offerings into three parts: the
middle part, where we offer prayers to the deities; the side part, where
we
offer prayers to the ancestors; and the part where
we offer prayers to the
spirits of our ancestors, spirits of the earth,
spirits of those we have wronged, and all the
spirits we need to worship. We place offerings on the
ancestral altar, and also on the incense burner.
In most altars, there is usually a small table
below the altar, where
we can place a tray of food.
If a family doesn't
have restrictions, we can place incense on
the lower part of the table. We don't need a
mirror; we just place
incense sticks on the upper part of the altar. When
burning incense,
we place three
incense sticks in the incense burner on the
Buddhist altar. And when burning incense, we place three or more incense sticks in the two side incense burners.
Before offering incense,
we prepare a square meter of green
incense for the ancestral altar
[music]. For the
Buddha offering, we include fruit; the
number of fruits is up to our discretion,
not a fixed number,
depending on the family's circumstances. One,
two, three, or four fruits—the number is up to the
family's expense. The types of fruit are one,
two, three, or four of a kind—
it's up to our family. In
this offering, there's no
requirement for
odd or even numbers.
This offering is from the heart; we
offer it, and
Buddha doesn't help us, but it's our
sincere intention to dedicate
our lives. Given our
economic situation and family circumstances,
we offer fresh fruit to Buddha first. For the rice,
we have one bowl of rice and one cup of water,
as a token of our devotion. For the offerings to the
deities on the
1st and 15th of the lunar month, we only
need to offer one bowl of rice and one cup of water, and
for the ancestral offerings...  We also offer a bowl of rice and a
cup of water. Ladies and
gentlemen, we can offer a
cup of plain water or a cup of tea.
We
can offer plain water or
tea, but we should drink
tea because tea contains all
the flavors—
bitter, spicy, sour, astringent, salty,
sweet—all contained within a single tea leaf.
Therefore, when we drink
tea, the aroma rises, and the flavors are complete.
In the prayers at
temples, we often hear about the
Three Virtues and Six Deities, the Buddha and the Sangha, and
sentient beings. We
will explain the Three Virtues and Six Deities. The Three
Virtues include: First,
cleanliness. This means our altar must be kept
clean. We shouldn't follow the
old custom of only removing and trimming incense sticks on the 23rd day of the 12th lunar month (the day of the Kitchen God)
or cleaning the incense burner.
Instead, we can trim the
incense sticks daily. For example, if we
light incense today,
before lighting it, we can gently rub our
hands together and...  Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni or Namo Amitabha Buddha. I ask you to clean the
incense burner and place it higher up, removing the
old stand so that we can light
new incense sticks. The part we
want to
offer is the fragrant incense,
not the stand. Whether
we have medicine or
not depends on the karma of our
thoughts, words, and actions.
When we treat the flu with
clean water, our minds become clearer and brighter
because we want to offer all the
things that should not be offered
to the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, holy monks,
and even the guardian spirits and departed
souls.
Therefore, clean water is very
important. When we wash all the items, we can clean them
thoroughly before offering them to the
incense burner. We can
then put the incense burner
back in its
original position. We can move the
incense burner up or down
depending on how much is in it. For example...  If
we have too many offerings,
we can push them
aside and then arrange the offerings.
This doesn't affect our blessings
or
add to our sins. There's a
folk belief, a belief
from ancient times, that fortune tellers and
shamans often scare
us by saying that disturbing the incense will bring misfortune to the family,
but that's not the case. Just
remember, we can comfortably prepare the
altar in a solemn and dignified manner, and
we can offer food and other items as we
wish, according to the quantity.
Secondly, regarding the purity
of the home, when we make
offerings, we need to have all the virtues.
First, reverence towards the Buddha is something we feel. The
virtue of the Buddha towards sentient beings is something we
feel, the wisdom
of the Buddha is
very profound.
On this day, we have the Dharma to
practice with gratitude and reverence towards the
Buddha. Therefore, we, the
people, should also have that virtue. I'm
trying to show respect to the deities and spirits,
and we must use it with
respect.  And we respectfully honor the deities and
spirits who have the opportunity
to protect those who practice
Buddhism. These deities also protect
our families; we call them the
Earth God and the God of Wealth. So, these deities, whom
we call deities, have the
power and influence to protect our land. We
call them the Earth God and the
God of Wealth because they
support our family in
good deeds, helping us in
our business endeavors and achieving success.
In reality, not every household has a God of Wealth to protect them.
If we had a God of Wealth to protect us, there would
n't be
business failures. So, how can a God of Wealth protect us and cause bankruptcy? In fact, these are just the
Water God or other spirits that
we call deities to give them a sense of authority.
But because we do
impure things, the deities
don't follow and protect us. If we
want the deities to have power and protect
us, we must do
good deeds or have many good
medicines,
helping this person and that person. Then the deities will follow and guide
us, so that we have
more blessings and good fortune in our business. I
think this is the god of wealth.
Therefore, we must have a
respectful heart and always have the deities protect and
help us. That's why
we offer food and other things to the
deities; that's our heart. That's the
virtue and respect for Buddha and the gods.
Another part is filial piety and the filial devotion we offer to the ancestors.
That is the virtue of filial piety.
We must have a
filial heart, a disciple of Buddha. When we offer
gifts to our ancestors,
we must focus on the
merits of our parents' birth and upbringing.
Yes, because of our ancestors, we exist. We
must use that filial heart to...  The
offering of food and drink is called the three virtues.
Respecting Buddha and deities, and offering money,
falls under the second virtue, which is
cleanliness and purity. The third virtue is doing what is right. What is right means that what
is offered and what the recipient
receives is what is right. For example,
when we are sick, if doctors give us the
right medicine, it's called the right medicine, the
medicine that saves us. But when we
make offerings,
firstly, we offer it to our ancestors, wanting to relieve the
suffering of
our family members. We want to save them from
illness and suffering; that's
our intention. So we will have offerings that are
appropriate for all beings to use.
These are
food items that we offer
to the Buddha, and fruits are up to
us. As for the offerings to
the deities, the
meaning is different; they are blessed, and some may
not use them.  Where are our offerings? I'm
afraid the deities and
spirits won't use any of our offerings.
Only the
spirits, or those
less powerful, will use a portion of our offerings. It's
not a large amount, but according to the
scriptures, the spirits are called
wood spirits or power spirits, and
we are called deities. They
don't use our offerings; they are simply
pleased with our hearts and
respect them. Specifically, from
the heart, we respect them. With a kind and good heart,
we do good deeds, and the
spirits protect us, helping us succeed. They
also protect us, helping
us encounter
good things so we can
practice them and receive blessings.
We usually don't see the gods and
spirits protecting us; they only
protect us in doing
good deeds. Seeing Yen continue the offering
to the deceased, in Buddhism, it's called "revelation,"
so is it really true?  The offerings
we make depend on the
spirits' needs; whether they
accept our food or
not, we
should do so because we are making offerings. We should not slaughter animals
for sacrifice. In the Buddhist scriptures, the
Buddha taught that wherever there is
killing of living beings, where there is blood and flesh, the
harvest and distribution of the harvest will
not reach that place. So
we can place it
below, or if the
altar is large, we can place it in the
corner of the ancestral altar, or in the
drawer pulled out from the bottom.
Dear fellow practitioners, when we perform
the ceremony, we also have a part
called the recitation of the Three Jewels
to dedicate the blessings to
our family. First, there is the
first envelope; you can
put money in here as you wish
to dedicate it to your family for
their current work,
health, or whatever
you wish.  You should place this money
in the section for offering to Buddha, or
in the middle, or you can put it
together with the fruit plate. There's
also an envelope, which
you should place on the side for the deities.
You can offer
as much or as little as you like, according to your heart.
We offer this to the Three Jewels,
dedicating the blessings to the deities and
spirits, hoping that they will
increase their blessings so that they can
practice Buddhism and protect
our family. In the sutra on offering
alms, the Buddha taught that whatever we offer, whether on earth or in the sky, they will all be inspired to protect the giver. Therefore, we
offer this to the Three Jewels, dedicating the
blessings to the deities so that they may
increase their blessings and guide
us in our good deeds so that they may
succeed. And there's another portion of money, which
you should also put in
another envelope, to dedicate the
blessings to the spirits of our ancestors
or those whose names are inscribed on it.  The spirits
that we offer prayers to on the anniversary of their death
or when needed, and the spirits
on earth,
are hindering
our work because
these vengeful spirits are seeking revenge. The cause is that we harmed
them in a previous life, and now they have the means to take revenge,
causing us to suffer karmic retribution. Therefore, we offer prayers to the
Three Jewels to dedicate the merit to them so that they
may receive blessings and achieve their goals.
This offering is also
a sincere way to express our
repentance to the spirits who have passed away. After
guiding
us through the ritual,
for families who
worship Buddha at home, if we stop,
we can hang images of the Buddha
on the wall. If there is one image
of the Buddha, we can hang it on the wall.
If there are
three
images of the
Buddha, we can also hang three
images.  They are equal. If
we worship both the Buddha and Bodhisattva images,
we place the
image of the Buddha in the middle and the images
of the Bodhisattvas on
either side. For
families where we
don't have the necessary conditions to
practice Buddhism, for example, if
we believe in Buddhism but others in the family do
n't
agree,
we can adapt by
worshipping our ancestors at home.
For instance, we can arrange the offerings as we would with the ancestral altar.
For example, we can offer rice and water as offerings, and in the middle,
we offer fruits and flowers. We
already have an incense burner for the deities at home, and we can place an
incense burner for the ancestors in the middle.
Many families do this,
so we can respectfully ask for the
Buddha's image on one side
so we can light incense.  You can place incense
directly on the
fruit plate, or you can
add a cup of rice and stick an incense stick in
it.
If it's too difficult in the family, well,
then we can still perform the ceremony, but
we offer it to the white snake
first, saying, "We respectfully offer this to the white snake."
The offering itself is already
complete. That is, we can
choose what to put down
or not put down, knowing that this is what
we respect. The
person
eating
rice in the middle has plenty of food and
a pair of chopsticks; that's enough. The two
bowls of rice on either side don't have
food, meaning there's a shortage, and there's only one
chopstick. So, when we
look at the meal, there's a shortage, a shortage here, meaning the initial quality of the food is a little bit, or it has to be according to my will, or whatever it is, it has to be complete according to my will. But when looking at the
meal, there's a surplus and a shortage.
If the family doesn't understand
this or doesn't agree with you,
you can place two
more on each side.  That's fine, three bowls of rice and
three pairs of chopsticks are also fine. This isn't a
fixed rule, but two people have set it up.
So when we make offerings,
we have three bowls of rice, and there
are two people next to us, but not like
this, we can complete the
offering fully. Now, I would like to
guide the Buddhist community on
how to set up a Buddhist altar when
our family only uses an office. Namo
Buddha, and the strength is still
limited. Regarding the system, there
is no place to go home.
Regarding the hanging altar, if it's a nice design, then this table symbolizes a hanging altar, something that's hung high up, and the space for displaying it is only 3 inches. So, according to the Buddhist community,
if we have to hang it, the easiest way
is to worship with statues,
because when we worship with a
hanging altar, the eyes are drawn to the space.
We will see that
hanging pictures of Buddhas and
Bodhisattvas is also more limited,
so if possible, we can use
symbolic images.  If anyone wants to use a
statue, it's all fine for the wedding. In
this small space,
we can still arrange the
Buddha statue behind the
incense burner in front, and on either
side, on the right is the
incense burner for the deities, and on the left is the incense burner for the deceased.
We still have
three plates for display,
and on the table,
we place
small bowls and cups for serving rice. The main meal tray
can be
placed on a chair,
and we still
have an altar.
For the arrangement, we can use just one vase of flowers and
one vase for
incense sticks. For
fruit, since it's a hanging altar, we
can arrange jackfruit.
Otherwise, it might affect
the overall balance of the altar.
We can arrange one jackfruit on one side, one on the other, one on the other, or two in the middle, three on the
sides, to create a
balanced weight. Respectfully,
dear friends.  Our fellow practitioners
worship the Dharma because it depends on
the three virtues of the Six Deities.
We must cultivate Buddhist teachings to
transform our minds and know how to make offerings to the
Three Jewels, bringing
blessings to the primordial
angels and the
spirits of the deceased. The
merit of our offerings to the Three Jewels, as well as the
merit we dedicate
to Sasuke Thành Lê
and the spirits of the deceased,
increases our
blessings and improves our work
and lives. We
hear from our fellow practitioners in other lands that
in our home lives, the eight spiritual lives of our community are
calculated according to the
True Dharma Fund. We would like to guide you on how to arrange the
offerings. If
your house has a large yard, you
can place it outside. If it rains, you can
place it in the yard. If it's an apartment,
you can place it in the city or near the
door of your house. If you don't
have a large space, you can
place the table facing the door.  glass
notebook  Outdoors means it can be by the
window inside the house.
Today, Yen is guiding the
Dharma friends on how to arrange things on the
altar. The offerings include
fruits, candies, snacks, and vegetarian rice, milk, porridge, rice, and
salt. Whatever we have, we offer as
offerings; we
don't kill animals, that's what we do with filial piety.
In this offering section,
we also have an envelope; we offer it to the
Three Jewels according to our means, dedicating the merit to
the departed souls. Today, they have the opportunity to come to
our Dharma assembly and receive blessings.
Thanks to that blessing, they can use
the traditional food and
offerings. Then, as shown in the
video link,
you can offer according to
your own wishes, that is, using Yen's prayer,
or if any Dharma friend prefers to offer
according to the rituals and symbols in
the scriptures, they can do so. This part is not
mandatory because it depends on
our own decision. The
scriptures taught by the Buddha usually guide the
spirits after they have been given by their loved ones.  By
wholeheartedly offering gifts to the Three Jewels and sending
blessings to the elderly in Vinh Phuc,
their blessings will
increase, and
they will receive all the offerings depending on
their actions and the devotion of the fellow practitioners.
Therefore, just like the offerings, it's simply an
expression of one's heart. This
part of our
offering must stem from the
correct direction of cause and effect, which is to increase
blessings, even if we lose something, we gain something
fundamentally. Even
knowing that it
's due to our economic conditions, when
people from Bac Ninh come to attend our
gatherings, they feel like they
belong to us.
We should focus on the offerings rather than the
material things.
If we
offer fewer items, but still
send them blessings,
they will still be provided for. But if
we offer too many items and they are
too few to use, they won't be able to
use them.  The things we, the people of the flu, the fellow
practitioners, understand about fate and the spirit, and
follow the
Long Linh highway, must consist of two parts: the offering to the
Three Jewels for them to have medicine, and the
offerings to the spirits
of the deceased. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, I
also wish you all,
when performing rituals at home, to do so according to the
true Dharma of the Buddha, so that
we, the living, may benefit and
reach out to the spirits of
those who have passed away.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]